Atru/mcp server 1.0 ga (#2566)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/terraform-mcp-server/v1.0.x/docs/mcp-server/deploy/index.mdx

last_modified: 2026-02-23T18:38:01.000Z
# END AUTO GENERATED METADATA
---

# Deploy the Terraform MCP server overview

This topic provides an overview of how to deploy the Terraform Model Context Protocol (MCP) server. The Terraform MCP server enables AI models to generate Terraform configuration using up-to-date information from the Terraform Registry. You can also connect the server to HCP Terraform or your Terraform Enterprise deployment. This lets you generate Terraform configuration using artifacts from your organizations. 

## Workflows 

You can install the Terraform MCP server either on your local machine or in a remote environment. Local deployments are best for helping you get started or for one-off projects. Refer to [Local deployments](/terraform/mcp-server/deploy/local) for instructions. 
 
Remote deployments are best for centrally managing the server, which helps you implement good governance policies across your organizations and reduce operational overhead. Refer to [Remote deployments](/terraform/mcp-server/deploy/remote) for instructions. 

## Secure configuration

Implement the following recommendations to securely deploy the MCP server:

> - **Hosting**: We recommend running the MCP Server locally at `127.0.0.1` through the STDIO or HTTP Streamable transport protocol to limit publicly exposing your Terraform environment. The default transport is set to STDIO. If you host the service remotely, we recommend implementing additional security controls at the application and network layers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Hosting**: We recommend running the MCP server locally at `127.0.0.1` through the STDIO or HTTP Streamable transport protocol to limit publicly exposing your Terraform environment. The default transport is set to STDIO. If you host the service remotely, we recommend implementing additional security controls at the application and network layers.
```

> - **Hosting**: We recommend running the MCP server locally at `127.0.0.1` through the STDIO or HTTP Streamable transport protocol to limit publicly exposing your Terraform environment. The default transport is set to STDIO. If you host the service remotely, we recommend implementing additional security controls at the application and network layers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Hosting**: We recommend running the MCP server locally at `127.0.0.1` through the STDIO or HTTP Streamable transport protocol to limit publicly exposing your Terraform environment. The default transport is set to STDIO. If you host the service remotely, we recommend implementing additional security controls at the application and network layers. For example, you can add an API gateway with authentication, TLS encryption, and IP whitelisting between the client and server.
```

Feel free to ignore, but seeing how a bit more guidance might fit here. Thoughts?

> - **CORS**: By default, Terraform MCP server runs in `strict` CORS (cross-origin request) mode and the allowed origins are empty. As a result, all cross-origin requests are blocked unless the server is explicitly configured to allow them. Exercise caution when you need to change allowed origins list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **CORS**: By default, Terraform MCP server runs in `strict` CORS (cross-origin request) mode and the allowed origins are empty. As a result, all cross-origin requests are blocked unless the server is explicitly configured to allow them. Exercise caution when changing the allowed origins list.
```

(or "considering changing the"?)

> - **Terraform authentication**: The `TFE_SKIP_VERIFY` option is enabled by default. We recommend keeping the option enabled so that communication with your Terraform environment is encrypted. We also recommend limiting the permissions of the `TFE_TOKEN` used to authenticate as described in the Terraform documentation. Refer to [API tokens](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/api-tokens) for more information.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Terraform authentication**: The `TFE_SKIP_TLS_VERIFY` option is set to `false` by default so that communication with your Terraform environment is encrypted. If you temporarily set this option to `true` for testing or other use cases, we strongly recommend resetting to `false` to ensure that encryption is enabled. We also recommend limiting the permissions of the `TFE_TOKEN` used to authenticate as described in the Terraform documentation. Refer to [API tokens](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/api-tokens) for more information.
```

> - **Terraform authentication**: The `TFE_SKIP_VERIFY` option is enabled by default. We recommend keeping the option enabled so that communication with your Terraform environment is encrypted. We also recommend limiting the permissions of the `TFE_TOKEN` used to authenticate as described in the Terraform documentation. Refer to [API tokens](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/api-tokens) for more information.

Reviewer: I'm a little confused here on the `TFE_SKIP_VERIFY` option.  The paragraph says it's enabled by default (good!) and that we recommend keeping it enabled (good!) - is there a reason someone might disable it?  I think my confusion is basically "why are we mentioning it?"

Author: Maybe for testing purposes? @vravind1 - Do you have any insight about this item? I can see mentioning it if there is a case for reminding users who set this to `true` for some reason to switch it back to `false`. But why would you even disable encryption in the first place?

Reviewer 3: yes for testing and local usage if needed

> - **Terraform authentication**: The `TFE_SKIP_VERIFY` option is enabled by default. We recommend keeping the option enabled so that communication with your Terraform environment is encrypted. We also recommend limiting the permissions of the `TFE_TOKEN` used to authenticate as described in the Terraform documentation. Refer to [API tokens](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/api-tokens) for more information.

Reviewer 4: Also, the right var name is `TFE_SKIP_TLS_VERIFY`

> - **Terraform authentication**: The `TFE_SKIP_TLS_VERIFY` option is set to `false` by default so that communication with your Terraform environment is encrypted. If you temporarily set this option to `true` for testing or other use cases, we strongly recommend resetting to `false` to ensure that encryption is enabled. We also recommend limiting the permissions of the `TFE_TOKEN` used to authenticate as described in the Terraform documentation. Refer to [API tokens](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/api-tokens) for more information.

Reviewer 2: Does skipping verification actually disable encryption, or does it just continue with operations even if the certificate isn't valid (self-signed, expired, etc)? Agree w/ the advice but just want to make sure we're being accurate.

> - **Terraform authentication**: The `TFE_SKIP_TLS_VERIFY` option is set to `false` by default so that communication with your Terraform environment is encrypted. If you temporarily set this option to `true` for testing or other use cases, we strongly recommend resetting to `false` to ensure that encryption is enabled. We also recommend limiting the permissions of the `TFE_TOKEN` used to authenticate as described in the Terraform documentation. Refer to [API tokens](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/api-tokens) for more information.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Terraform authentication**: The `TFE_SKIP_TLS_VERIFY` option is set to `false` by default so that the MCP server verifies that the HCP Terraform or Terraform Enterprise TLS certificate is valid. If you temporarily set this option to `true` for testing or other use cases, we strongly recommend resetting to `false` to ensure that encryption is enabled. We also recommend limiting the permissions of the `TFE_TOKEN` used to authenticate as described in the Terraform documentation. Refer to [API tokens](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/api-tokens) for more information.
```

- **Rate limiting**: We recommend setting up global and per-session rate limits to prevent the server or dependent resources from becoming overloaded through excessive requests. 

> - **TLS**: When making your MCP server accessible remotely, we recommend adding a TLS certificate to protect in-transit communication through the wire.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **TLS**: When making your MCP server accessible remotely, we recommend adding a TLS certificate to protect in-transit communication.
```

(Omitting unneeded words, "through the wire" is also a bit idiomatic)

> - **TLS**: When making your MCP server accessible remotely, we recommend adding a TLS certificate to protect in-transit communication.

Reviewer 2: Similar to above, I don't _think_ this is something the MCP server supports natively and instead has to be done further up the stack (such as an API gateway). If this is the case, would it be better to clarify that here?

Author: ```suggestion
- **TLS**: When making your MCP server accessible remotely, we recommend adding TLS certificates to the host infrastructure to protect in-transit communication.
```

## Authentication

> Terraform MCP server v0.3.0 or newer is required to authenticate Terraform MCP server with the registry. You must also obtain an authentication token from HCP Terraform or your Terraform Enterprise deployment so that the MCP server can present it. Refer to [API tokens](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/api-tokens) for instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Terraform MCP server v0.3.0 or newer is required to authenticate with the Terraform registry. You must also obtain an authentication token from HCP Terraform or your Terraform Enterprise deployment so that the MCP server can present it. Refer to [API tokens](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/api-tokens) for instructions.
```

I think this change is accurate but please double check me.  The repeated "Terraform MCP server" was confusing to read.

> Terraform MCP server v0.3.0 or newer is required to authenticate with the Terraform registry. You must also obtain an authentication token from HCP Terraform or your Terraform Enterprise deployment so that the MCP server can present it. Refer to [API tokens](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/api-tokens) for instructions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Terraform MCP server v0.3.0 or newer is required to authenticate with the Terraform registry. You must also obtain an authentication token from HCP Terraform or your Terraform Enterprise deployment so that the MCP server can access your private registry. Refer to [API tokens](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/api-tokens) for instructions.
```

> We recommend authenticating the server with the registry to ensure that communication in your Terraform environment is encrypted. Refer to [Secure configuration](#secure-configuration) for more information.

Reviewer 2: Also want to verify the accuracy of this: I'd expect that unless I set TLS verification to false, the communication should always be encrypted, authenticated or not right? Would it be more accurate to say that we recommend users authenticate w/ their private registry so that the MCP server can access their organization's modules and providers?

> We recommend authenticating the server with the registry to ensure that communication in your Terraform environment is encrypted. Refer to [Secure configuration](#secure-configuration) for more information.

Author: ```suggestion
We recommend authenticating the server with HCP Terraform or Terraform Enterprise so that you can interact with your organization and private registry. Refer to [Connect to HCP Terraform or Terraform Enterprise](/terraform/mcp-server/deploy/local#connect-to-hcp-terraform-or-terraform-enterprise) for more information.
```
